

# Web based software for inspection of various buildings from Life and Fire Safety Point of view.
---
# Find this on [Github].

## How to setup
1. Unzip the file.
2. Create database and import **Schema.sql**
3. Change credentials in **config.php**
4. Use Apache server to run the project from root directory.
---
## Prerequisites

1. Building of the map is passed by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, corresponding to which a letter is generated by the MSL, having a unique reference ID, which has all the installation details of the building based on the category of the building.
2. The letter is sent to the User and MCD.
3. MSL then uploads the letter and the building map on the website, corresponding to each reference number, which is stored in the database.
---
## Actors

1. User : Owner/Promoter of the building
2. MSL 
3. System Manager : CFO, DO, ADO
4. Inspector
---
## Flow of Events

1. User registers to the website using specified credentials, out of which the mobile number is verified by using **OTP verification and email ID is also verified.**
2. Once the email is verified the user can log in to the system using the same Email ID.
3. The user may then raise a request corresponding to the reference number and the reference number is validated to **AVOID spamming.**
4. The request is then directed to the system manager, who then handles the request by creating an installation checklist corresponding to the letter generated by MSL and building category.
5. The system manager then allocates an inspector based on his availability.
6. The request is then notified to the inspector who may then accept or decline the request. To avoid time delays, the inspector is given a time span of 24 hours to act on the request.
7. On scheduling the inspection, status of the scheduled inspection is notified to the user, inspector, system manager.
8. The inspector then visits the specified building and inspects it, based on the inspection guidelines.
    > **To avoid corruption**
a. We've eradicated the facility of UPLOADING the image, and thus the inspector can **ONLY CAPTURE** the image based on time stamp.
	   b. An added feature of **GEO-TAGGING** has been used to ensure that the inspector had indeed visited the given address and captured the photograph on the given address.
9. In case of shortcomings, if any, an extension of a few days is given to the user based on human interaction. 
10. A report is generated by the inspector which is sent to the user and the system manager.
11. The report is verified by the system manager,and in case of shortcomings, the inspection is rescheduled.
12. The system manager sends the verified report to the user and notifies him the date on which the user can visit the office and collect the certificate with the seal and stamp of the Fire Service Authority.
---
## Added Innovations
1. Once the certificate is issued, to raise GENERAL AWARENESS & INTEREST, the **verified building and the certificate is added to the google map** available in public domain.
2. Our website currently supports **2 languages** i.e. - Hindi and English.
3. **Geo Tagging** to minimize corruption.
4. Inspector can **only capture image in real time** and cannot upload.
5. **Surprise Inspections** in span of three years.
---
## Future Scope
1. **Augmented Reality** - For accurately measuring dimensions.
2. **3D Scanning** - To generate 3D blueprints of buildings.
3. **Blockchain** - For maintaining historical logs of buildings.
4. **Robot Car Inspection** - To completely eradicate corruption.
5. **Implement OCR** - To automate the process of checklist generation.
6. **Multi Lingual Support** - To increase user interaction at every level.
---

[github]: <https://github.com/varush108/SIH-BVICAM_007>